Citations are necessary, but citations alone are not an evidence standard.
A link proves where a statement came from.
It does not prove that the source is authoritative, current, independent, or relevant to the claim being made.
Require citations for consequential claims and ask for a source-quality check when accuracy matters.
The reviewer should be able to open the evidence, see the publication date, understand who produced it, and judge whether its method fits the conclusion.
Separate well-supported findings from directional observations.
A measured result from a defined sample is different from an emerging signal, an expert interpretation, or a company claim.
The report should preserve those categories instead of blending them into one confident voice.
Use triangulation where the decision is important.
One primary source may establish a fact; an independent source may test the interpretation; a current data point may show whether the pattern still holds.
Agreement increases confidence, while disagreement becomes a visible research result.
A simple evidence ledger is enough: claim, source, date, source type, quality note, supporting or conflicting evidence, and confidence.
This ledger does not need to appear in the executive summary, but it should remain available for audit.
The common failure is optimizing for the number of links.
Ten weak citations do not outweigh one strong, relevant source.
Evidence quality comes from the relationship between the claim, the source, and the decision.
First, require traceable citations for claims that can change the decision.
Second, evaluate source quality instead of treating every link as equal.
Third, separate established findings, directional observations, and conflicts.